## G28: Home

### Parameters

This command can be used without any additional parameters.

- **X** Flag to home the X axis

- **Y** Flag to home the Y axis

- **Z** Flag to home the Z axis

- **U, V, W, A, B, C, D** Flags to home additional axes that may have been created

**Restrictions**

This command may not be used within a homing file.

### Examples

G28 ; Home all axes G28 XZ ; Home the X and Z axes

The **X** and **Z** parameters in this example act only as flags. Any coordinates given are ignored. For example, G28 Z10 results in the same behavior as G28 Z. Delta printers cannot home individual axes, but must always home all three towers, so the **X Y Z** parameters are simply ignored if the Firmware is in Delta mode.

The purpose of homing is to move the specified axes in such a way as to establish a known position for them, for example by moving an axis motor until an endstop switch is triggered. Homing an axis normally leaves it in a fixed position, however this position needs not be the zero position.

The way in which each axis is homed is completely configurable using the homing macro files, which specify what actions are taken. Execution of the G28 command is as follows:

- If there are no G28 parameters that correspond to axes that exist, or if the printer is a delta, then all axes are to be homed. Otherwise, the axes to be homed are determined by enumerating parameters of the G28 command.

- Each axis or delta tower to be homed is flagged as "position not known".

- If **ALL** axes or towers are to be homed, the file **homeall.g** is processed, except that on a delta printer **homedelta.g** is processed. If this process results in at least one axis, but not all axes, becoming flagged as "position known", an attempt will be made to home the remaining axes as if the G28 command had listed those axes.

- For each remaining axis flagged as "to be homed" the appropriate homing file is executed (**homex.g**, **homey.g**, **homez.g** etc.).

- If flags are used, the axes are homed in the order X, Y, Z etc, not in the order the flags are specified (e.g. G28 ZX will home X first, then Z)

For Cartesian printers that use a Z probe to home Z instead of an endstop it is sensible to setup the **homeall.g** with the XY axes to home first, then move the carriage to a safe position -usually the middle of the bed- where it can safely probe downward to home Z. For an example see Configuring RepRapFirmware for a Cartesian printer.

Neither homeall.g nor any other homing file may itself contain a G28 command, however it may use a M98 command to invoke another homing file.

Because the behaviour of **G28** can be complex, it is recommended to consider the printer actions carefully before including **G28** in your ending GCode. On a Cartesian or CoreXY it could result in colliding with the printed object. An alternative to move the carriage at the completion of a print is to use **G0** or **G1**.

