## M569.4: Set Motor Driver Torque Mode

Supported in firmware 3.5 on Expansion 1HCL and M23CL devices when in closed loop mode. Also supported in firmware 3.4 and later on Duet 3 MB6HC and MB6XD boards with ODrives connected to the second CAN bus and Hangprinter kinematics configured.

Tell one or more motor drivers to apply a specified torque regardless of position.

### Parameters

- **Pn.n** Motor CAN address and driver number. Can also be a colon separated list of driver numbers.

- **Tn.n** The torque to apply in units of Nm, or zero to leave torque mode. Applying the requested torque is dependnt on on the M569.1 Q parameter having been specified correctly (not applicable to Hangprnter/ODrive).

- **Vn.n** (optional) Maximum speed to move at in full steps per second. A zero (the default) or negative value means no limit. Not supported on Hangprinter/ODrive.

### Examples

M569.4 Error: M569: missing parameter 'P' M569.4 P50.0:51.0 Error: M569: missing parameter 'T' M569.4 P50.0 T0.001 0.001000 Nm M569.4 P50.0:51.0 T0 pos_mode, pos_mode

### Notes

- If **P** or **T** parameter is missing, then no action is taken.

- Use the Q parameter of the M569.1 command to specify the torque constant of the motor.

- The driver is put back into position mode by requesting a torque smaller than 0.0001 Nm

- Sending a regular motion command (e.g. G1) that reques movement by the motor also puts the motor back into position mode.

- Hangprinter's "torque mode" is implemented as a RepRapFirmware macro that depends on M569.4.

