## G38.2: Straight Probe

Probe toward workpiece, stop on contact, signal error if failure. Supported in RepRapFirmware 3 and later.

### Parameters

- **X,Y,Z,U,V,W,A,B,Cnnn**: Target position (up until RRF 3.1.1 these are expected to be machine coordinates)

- **Pnn**: Probe number to use, default 0 (deprecated in RRF 3.3 and later)

- **Knn**: Probe number to use, default 0 (RRF 3.3 and later)

- **Fnnn**: Feed rate, i.e. probing speed, mm/min (RRF 3.6.0 and later).

### Description

G38.x Straight Probe will perform a probing move in a straight line with the currently active or selected (**Pnnn**) probe. It will either move towards an obstacle (usually a workpiece) and stop on contact or move away from an obstacle until the probe loses contact.

**Modes**

- **G38.2**: probe toward workpiece, stop on contact, signal error if failure

- **G38.3**: probe toward workpiece, stop on contact

- **G38.4**: probe away from workpiece, stop on loss of contact, signal error if failure

- **G38.5**: probe away from workpiece, stop on loss of contact

**Conditions considered an error** (for G38.2 and G38.4)

- Probe already in target state (triggered for G38.2 and not triggered for G38.4)

- No target coordinates given

- Target coordinates equal to current position

### Notes

- For probing away the probe used does not have to be inverted. This command will take care of that.

- Feedrate used for this move is the configured feedrate of the used probe (see M558 Fnnn).

- In RRF 3.6.0 and later, the **F** parameter can set the feed rate. If no F parameter is specified, probing speed defaults to the speed set by M558 for the Z probe used.

